about-this-site/how-edit-wunderway.md, before:

---
layout: page
section: how
categories:
tags:
title: How To Edit The WunderWay
---

The WunderWay is intended to be collaborative and continuously improved. Any change or addition can be suggested by anyone, and requires peer review before being merged into the official WunderWay.

To help with this, we use Github's [pull request workflow.](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) This allows us to keep all the different versions of the content that have ever existed, track changes, and discuss them. It also allows us easily catch and fix any mistakes - so don't worry about breaking it.

## Considerations

The WunderWay is based on ISO 9001, the quality standard. We have objectives that are monitored and measured for this. Before you submit an issue or a pull request consider the impact of this change on our [Quality Objectives](/about-this-site/quality-management-system/quality-objectives/).

We monitor the quality of our services and the quality of the products we create. We record the number of bugs found in these as a measure of quality. We also record the accuracy of our sprint estimations.

Risks are recorded, owned, managed and reported thoroughly. Consider the impact your change could have on how we manage risks.

Our project management processes record vital information throughout a project for reporting, monitoring and training purposes. If your change affects these then it will affect us all.

We try to look after our staff, to continually develop their skills and to provide a suitable workplace for producing quality work and to create an environment for support and learning. Consider how changes in communication, workplace and the availability staff will affect this.

The cost of winning new business is monitored. Consider how changes in the sales and procurement processes will affect this.

## Approving Changes

Changes that affect us all need to be reviewed and approved by those who represent the whole group and not just individual countries. To tackle this we've set up (and are still looking for representatives for) [WunderExperts Groups](/about-this-site/wunder-experts-groups/).

Each group (technical, project management, design, UX, operations, sales, hosting) will comprise (where possible) a representative from each country. It'll be the responsibility for these groups to review your change with you, to agree an implementation plan and a communication plan to make sure everyone within the WunderKraut group is made aware of changes that affect them.


## The Update Process

All updates, whether editing existing content or adding new content, is done using issues and pull requests in GitHub.

If you have an idea for new content, a new process or a new tool then raise an issue and include a clear description of your request and the reasons behind it.

If you are creating new content or editing existing content then this can be raised as a pull request.

The process is simple:

 - Raise a pull request (PR) or issue in GitHub
 - The PR or issue is reviewed
 - Comments, questions, queries and discussions are recorded in GitHub
 - If the change is accepted:
	 - An issue will require a pull request to be created to add or edit the content
	 - A pull request will be reviewed by the [expert group](/about-this-site/wunder-experts-groups/) responsible for the particular area of the WunderWay this affects
	 - When the pull request is merged then any relevant issue will be closed
	 - Updates will be automatically posted in the WunderCafe room in HipChat

It's important that we have a review process for all new content. The WunderWay is audited annually and we need to log:

 - The reasons and discussions behind the edit or new content
 - The value is brings
 - The impact. Does this need to be communicated?
 - The impact on our [objectives](/about-this-site/quality-management-system/quality-objectives/). Does this change need to be measured and is there a process in place for that?

## Preparing To Work On The WunderWay

### Editing The WunderWay On Github
You can simply work on the Github website, without needing to set up anything on your own computer:

Either:

1. Navigate on the [WunderWay](http://way.wunder.io) to the page you want to edit
2. Click the link at the top of the page, in light grey, that says 'Edit This Page'

Or:

1. Go to the [WunderWay repository](https://github.com/Wunderkraut/WunderWay) on Github
2. Navigate to the page you want to edit, clicking on the folders until you find the filename you want. Click on that. For example, this page can be edited at https://github.com/Wunderkraut/WunderWay/blob/gh-pages/how/how-edit-wunderway.md

You will then be viewing the source of the page on Github. To edit this:

1. Click the Pencil icon to 'Edit this file'. Make the changes you want.
2. At the bottom of the screen, in the 'Propose Changes' section, add a description of the changes you've made.
3. Click the 'Propose Changes' button.
4. Your pull request will appear on the WunderWay [pull requests page.](https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay/pulls)
5. A notification of this pull request will appear in the WunderCafe Hipchat room. Reach out to specific people to ensure they see your pull request.

### Editing The WunderWay On Your Local Computer using the Github app
1. Download and install the [Github for Mac](https://mac.github.com/) software.
2. Download and install a text editor of your choice. eg. [Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/)
3. Open the Github app and, on the repositories screen, select 'Wunderkraut' repositories.
4. On the 'Wunderkraut/WunderWay' repository select 'Clone to Computer'
5. Select a suitable folder to save the files in.
6. Open your text editor. From the File menu choose 'Open...'. Select the folder where you cloned the WunderWay repository.
7. In Sublime and similar text editors, you'll see the folder structure of the WunderWay on the left hand side. Find the file you want to edit, and make the changes. Select File>Save when you are done.
8. In the Github for Mac application, under 'changes' it will show that you have 'uncommitted changes'. Type a heading and description about the changes you made. Click Commit.
9. You can make many edits like this offline. When you are back online and want to open a pull request for your changes you follow the instructions on [Create Pull Requests with GitHub for Mac](https://github.com/blog/1946-create-pull-requests-with-github-for-mac) ![Demonstration of a pull request](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/13760/5697198/35b8c866-999f-11e4-91c1-7af538f2ced5.gif)
10. Your pull request will appear on the WunderWay [pull requests page.](https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay/pulls)
11. A notification of this pull request will appear in the WunderCafe Hipchat room. Reach out to specific people to ensure they see your pull request.


#### Previewing your WunderWay changes on your local computer
1. Navigate to the top WunderWay folder in your terminal
2. Install Jekyll by running ``` $ gem install jekyll ```
3. You you encounter an error, you may need to run ``` $ sudo gem install jekyll ```
4. In the same directory, run ``` jekyll serve ```. This compiles the jekyll site and makes it availiable on http://localhost:4000
5. If you want Jekyll to recompile the site every time you save a file, run ``` jekyll serve --watch ``` instead

### Editing the WunderWay On Your Local Computer by a GitHub fork
A fork is a copy of the Wunder/WunderWay repository and provides you the freedom to experiment with changes without interfering with the original WunderWay. Only when you are happy with the result, you can ask the owner(s) of the Wunderway to merge your changes by creating a pull request.
You can also create a fork of the WunderWay. GitHub provides a very profound and crips [tutorial on how to fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) a repository. Hence, this section will provide the quick steps to set up your fork and local clone of the WunderWay.

The required steps come down to 

1. Fork the repository.
2. Make the fix.
3. Submit a pull request to the project owner.

#### Setup: Forking the WunderWay
1. Login to your GitHub account
2. Navigate to the [WunderWay - GitHub Repository](https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay)
3. Create a fork by clicking on _Fork_ in the top-right corner of the page. This will then create a new repo like ``` https://github.com/YOUR-USER-NAME/WunderWay ```
4. Clone the fork on your local computer

The WunderWay will further improve and be extended by contributors. Usually, you want to get those changes into your fork, too. Here, it is good practice to sync your fork with the original repository, or _upstream_ in regular intervals. You need to set up the upstream on your local clone:

1. Navigate to the folder of your local clone
2. Add the upstream by typing ``` $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay.git ``` (note: the original repository is called _upstream_ by convention. But feel free to give it another name and replace _upstream_ by another term.)

#### Editing by branches and pull requests
You are set up by having a local clone of your GitHub fork. Proceed with these steps to get your commits and pull requests up for reviews:

0. Update your local fork before making any changes by syncing with the upstream
    1. Make sure that there a no unique commits on your master branch (there should not be any, because all your changes should happen in dedicated branches)
	  2. Type ``` $ git fetch upstream ```
	  3. Check out your local master branch ``` $ git checkout gh-pages ```
	  4. Merge the changes ``` $ git merge upstream/gh-pages ``` (this should trigger a _fast-forward merge_)
1. Create a new branch, which reflects the issue or your improvement you want to add ``` $ git checkout -b BRANCH_NAME ```
2. Open an editor of your choice and add your changes
3. Add and commit the changes ``` $ git commit -am "COMMIT MESSAGE" ```
4. Push your branch to your GitHub repo ``` $ git push --set-upstream origin BRANCH_NAME ```

Now you only need to let the Expert Group know about your changes by creating a pull request. You create a pull request on GitHub, as described on [GitHub's Pull Request Workflow](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

## Reviewing and merging pull requests
For instructions on how to review and discuss the proposed changes see [Using pull requests.](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#reviewing-proposed-changes)

After a consensus has been agreed, and you have the permissions, you'll want to merge the pull request into the official WunderWay. For instructions on how to merge and close a pull request see [Merging a pull request.](https://help.github.com/articles/merging-a-pull-request/)


## Formatting
The WunderWay uses a formatting syntax called 'Markdown' to generate the content. It's simple to use once the basic syntax is learned. You can read Github's [Introduction to Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) and you can find a full description on the syntax at http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax

## Creating New Pages
If you need to create a completely new page, you can create a new file in the right section folder in WunderWay. Call the file 'your-file-name.md' where your-file-name can be anything you like. The '.md' file extension is important.

At the very beginning of your file you need a few lines of text called 'front-matter'. These look like this, and you can copy and paste this as a template to start with and edit as you need...

    ---
    layout: page
    section: how
    categories: Admin
    tags: Expenses, Finance
    title: How To Claim Expenses
    ---

This tells the system that builds the site what type of file it is, what section it's in, the categories it's in, and the title. The Tags will help with navigation.

Commit message:

Section on why forking is good practice

about-this-site/how-edit-wunderway.md, after:

---
layout: page
section: how
categories:
tags:
title: How To Edit The WunderWay
---

The WunderWay is intended to be collaborative and continuously improved. Any change or addition can be suggested by anyone, and requires peer review before being merged into the official WunderWay.

To help with this, we use Github's [pull request workflow.](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) This allows us to keep all the different versions of the content that have ever existed, track changes, and discuss them. It also allows us easily catch and fix any mistakes - so don't worry about breaking it.

## Considerations

The WunderWay is based on ISO 9001, the quality standard. We have objectives that are monitored and measured for this. Before you submit an issue or a pull request consider the impact of this change on our [Quality Objectives](/about-this-site/quality-management-system/quality-objectives/).

We monitor the quality of our services and the quality of the products we create. We record the number of bugs found in these as a measure of quality. We also record the accuracy of our sprint estimations.

Risks are recorded, owned, managed and reported thoroughly. Consider the impact your change could have on how we manage risks.

Our project management processes record vital information throughout a project for reporting, monitoring and training purposes. If your change affects these then it will affect us all.

We try to look after our staff, to continually develop their skills and to provide a suitable workplace for producing quality work and to create an environment for support and learning. Consider how changes in communication, workplace and the availability staff will affect this.

The cost of winning new business is monitored. Consider how changes in the sales and procurement processes will affect this.

## Approving Changes

Changes that affect us all need to be reviewed and approved by those who represent the whole group and not just individual countries. To tackle this we've set up (and are still looking for representatives for) [WunderExperts Groups](/about-this-site/wunder-experts-groups/).

Each group (technical, project management, design, UX, operations, sales, hosting) will comprise (where possible) a representative from each country. It'll be the responsibility for these groups to review your change with you, to agree an implementation plan and a communication plan to make sure everyone within the WunderKraut group is made aware of changes that affect them.


## The Update Process

All updates, whether editing existing content or adding new content, is done using issues and pull requests in GitHub.

If you have an idea for new content, a new process or a new tool then raise an issue and include a clear description of your request and the reasons behind it.

If you are creating new content or editing existing content then this can be raised as a pull request.

The process is simple:

 - Raise a pull request (PR) or issue in GitHub
 - The PR or issue is reviewed
 - Comments, questions, queries and discussions are recorded in GitHub
 - If the change is accepted:
	 - An issue will require a pull request to be created to add or edit the content
	 - A pull request will be reviewed by the [expert group](/about-this-site/wunder-experts-groups/) responsible for the particular area of the WunderWay this affects
	 - When the pull request is merged then any relevant issue will be closed
	 - Updates will be automatically posted in the WunderCafe room in HipChat

It's important that we have a review process for all new content. The WunderWay is audited annually and we need to log:

 - The reasons and discussions behind the edit or new content
 - The value is brings
 - The impact. Does this need to be communicated?
 - The impact on our [objectives](/about-this-site/quality-management-system/quality-objectives/). Does this change need to be measured and is there a process in place for that?

## Preparing To Work On The WunderWay

### Editing The WunderWay On Github
You can simply work on the Github website, without needing to set up anything on your own computer:

Either:

1. Navigate on the [WunderWay](http://way.wunder.io) to the page you want to edit
2. Click the link at the top of the page, in light grey, that says 'Edit This Page'

Or:

1. Go to the [WunderWay repository](https://github.com/Wunderkraut/WunderWay) on Github
2. Navigate to the page you want to edit, clicking on the folders until you find the filename you want. Click on that. For example, this page can be edited at https://github.com/Wunderkraut/WunderWay/blob/gh-pages/how/how-edit-wunderway.md

You will then be viewing the source of the page on Github. To edit this:

1. Click the Pencil icon to 'Edit this file'. Make the changes you want.
2. At the bottom of the screen, in the 'Propose Changes' section, add a description of the changes you've made.
3. Click the 'Propose Changes' button.
4. Your pull request will appear on the WunderWay [pull requests page.](https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay/pulls)
5. A notification of this pull request will appear in the WunderCafe Hipchat room. Reach out to specific people to ensure they see your pull request.

### Editing The WunderWay On Your Local Computer using the Github app
1. Download and install the [Github for Mac](https://mac.github.com/) software.
2. Download and install a text editor of your choice. eg. [Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/)
3. Open the Github app and, on the repositories screen, select 'Wunderkraut' repositories.
4. On the 'Wunderkraut/WunderWay' repository select 'Clone to Computer'
5. Select a suitable folder to save the files in.
6. Open your text editor. From the File menu choose 'Open...'. Select the folder where you cloned the WunderWay repository.
7. In Sublime and similar text editors, you'll see the folder structure of the WunderWay on the left hand side. Find the file you want to edit, and make the changes. Select File>Save when you are done.
8. In the Github for Mac application, under 'changes' it will show that you have 'uncommitted changes'. Type a heading and description about the changes you made. Click Commit.
9. You can make many edits like this offline. When you are back online and want to open a pull request for your changes you follow the instructions on [Create Pull Requests with GitHub for Mac](https://github.com/blog/1946-create-pull-requests-with-github-for-mac) ![Demonstration of a pull request](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/13760/5697198/35b8c866-999f-11e4-91c1-7af538f2ced5.gif)
10. Your pull request will appear on the WunderWay [pull requests page.](https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay/pulls)
11. A notification of this pull request will appear in the WunderCafe Hipchat room. Reach out to specific people to ensure they see your pull request.


#### Previewing your WunderWay changes on your local computer
1. Navigate to the top WunderWay folder in your terminal
2. Install Jekyll by running ``` $ gem install jekyll ```
3. You you encounter an error, you may need to run ``` $ sudo gem install jekyll ```
4. In the same directory, run ``` jekyll serve ```. This compiles the jekyll site and makes it availiable on http://localhost:4000
5. If you want Jekyll to recompile the site every time you save a file, run ``` jekyll serve --watch ``` instead

### Editing the WunderWay On Your Local Computer by a GitHub fork
A fork is a copy of the Wunder/WunderWay repository and provides you the freedom to experiment with changes without interfering with the original WunderWay. Only when you are happy with the result, you can ask the owner(s) of the Wunderway to merge your changes by creating a pull request.
You can also create a fork of the WunderWay. GitHub provides a very profound and crips [tutorial on how to fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) a repository. Hence, this section will provide the quick steps to set up your fork and local clone of the WunderWay.

The required steps come down to 

1. Fork the repository.
2. Make the fix.
3. Submit a pull request to the project owner.

#### Excourse on the advantage of forking and pull requests
The advantage of having a branch for each issue or improvement that you are working on is that you have a clearer separation between the areas you are working on. Imagine that you want to add a section to our [Quality Objectives](/about-this-site/quality-management-system/quality-objectives/) and in parallel refine the way, in which a [Daily Standup](/delivering-projects/daily-standup) is conducted. You commit both changes in on branch (or even your master branch) and create one pull request for them. The reviewer might conclude that your changes on the Daily are alright - but you still need an iteration on the Quality Objective's changes. This actually blocks your ideas on the Daily to be shared with others untils you have dealt with the reviewer's suggestions.
It might even go further, if the reviewer dismisses your pull request. Now, you have a local master branch, which is out of sync with the HEAD of the WunderWay - and this will give you a hard to to undo. Unless you recreate the fork.

#### Setup: Forking the WunderWay
1. Login to your GitHub account
2. Navigate to the [WunderWay - GitHub Repository](https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay)
3. Create a fork by clicking on _Fork_ in the top-right corner of the page. This will then create a new repo like ``` https://github.com/YOUR-USER-NAME/WunderWay ```
4. Clone the fork on your local computer

The WunderWay will further improve and be extended by contributors. Usually, you want to get those changes into your fork, too. Here, it is good practice to sync your fork with the original repository, or _upstream_ in regular intervals. You need to set up the upstream on your local clone:

1. Navigate to the folder of your local clone
2. Add the upstream by typing ``` $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/wunderkraut/WunderWay.git ``` (note: the original repository is called _upstream_ by convention. But feel free to give it another name and replace _upstream_ by another term.)

#### Editing by branches and pull requests
You are set up by having a local clone of your GitHub fork. Proceed with these steps to get your commits and pull requests up for reviews:

0. Update your local fork before making any changes by syncing with the upstream
    1. Make sure that there a no unique commits on your master branch (there should not be any, because all your changes should happen in dedicated branches)
	  2. Type ``` $ git fetch upstream ```
	  3. Check out your local master branch ``` $ git checkout gh-pages ```
	  4. Merge the changes ``` $ git merge upstream/gh-pages ``` (this should trigger a _fast-forward merge_)
1. Create a new branch, which reflects the issue or your improvement you want to add ``` $ git checkout -b BRANCH_NAME ```
2. Open an editor of your choice and add your changes
3. Add and commit the changes ``` $ git commit -am "COMMIT MESSAGE" ```
4. Push your branch to your GitHub repo ``` $ git push --set-upstream origin BRANCH_NAME ```

Now you only need to let the Expert Group know about your changes by creating a pull request. You create a pull request on GitHub, as described on [GitHub's Pull Request Workflow](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

## Reviewing and merging pull requests
For instructions on how to review and discuss the proposed changes see [Using pull requests.](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#reviewing-proposed-changes)

After a consensus has been agreed, and you have the permissions, you'll want to merge the pull request into the official WunderWay. For instructions on how to merge and close a pull request see [Merging a pull request.](https://help.github.com/articles/merging-a-pull-request/)


## Formatting
The WunderWay uses a formatting syntax called 'Markdown' to generate the content. It's simple to use once the basic syntax is learned. You can read Github's [Introduction to Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) and you can find a full description on the syntax at http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax

## Creating New Pages
If you need to create a completely new page, you can create a new file in the right section folder in WunderWay. Call the file 'your-file-name.md' where your-file-name can be anything you like. The '.md' file extension is important.

At the very beginning of your file you need a few lines of text called 'front-matter'. These look like this, and you can copy and paste this as a template to start with and edit as you need...

    ---
    layout: page
    section: how
    categories: Admin
    tags: Expenses, Finance
    title: How To Claim Expenses
    ---

This tells the system that builds the site what type of file it is, what section it's in, the categories it's in, and the title. The Tags will help with navigation.
